HOW TO EDIT THE MEDICAL PATIENT CONCIERGE
For Learning and Development Managers with No Programming Experience

=== WHAT YOU CAN EDIT ===

You can change:
1. Product names
2. Product brands
3. THC and CBD percentages
4. Terpene lists
5. Effect descriptions
6. Staff talking point scripts
7. Which conditions each product treats
8. Which consumption methods each product supports
9. Which price tier each product belongs to

You cannot break the tool. If you make a mistake, the tool will still open. It may show strange text, but it will not crash. You can always undo your changes and try again.

=== WHAT YOU NEED ===

You need a text editor. On Windows, use Notepad. On Mac, use TextEdit in plain text mode. Do not use Microsoft Word. Word adds hidden formatting that breaks the tool.

=== STEP-BY-STEP INSTRUCTIONS ===

Step One. Locate the file.
Open the folder named Zero-Three-TOOLS-READY-TO-DEPLOY.
Find the file named Zero-One-Medical-Patient-Concierge.html.
Right-click the file.
Select Open With.
Choose Notepad on Windows or TextEdit on Mac.

Step Two. Find the product database.
The file is long. Do not read all of it.
Press Control and F at the same time. On a Mac, press Command and F.
A search box will appear.
Type the exact text: standard-gg4
Press Enter.
The editor will jump to the first product in the database.

Step Three. Understand the product format.
Each product looks like this example. I will show you one complete product and label every part.

"standard-gg4": {
    name: "GG4 (Gorilla Glue #4)",
    brand: "The Standard",
    category: "flower",
    tier: "premium",
    thc: "28-32%",
    cbd: "<1%",
    terpenes: ["Caryophyllene", "Myrcene", "Limonene"],
    effects: ["Relaxation", "Pain Relief", "Euphoria"],
    bestFor: ["pain", "anxiety", "sleep"],
    methods: ["smoke", "vape"],
    description: "Award-winning hybrid. Heavy-hitting euphoria followed by deep body relaxation.",
    staffScript: "This is our top-seller from The Standard — GG4. Start with one hit and wait 10 minutes."
  }

Here is what each line means:

Line 1: "standard-gg4" is the internal code name for this product. Do not change this unless you are adding a completely new product. If you are only editing an existing product, leave this line alone.

Line 2: name is what the customer sees. Change the text inside the quotation marks. For example, change "GG4 (Gorilla Glue #4)" to "Your New Strain Name".

Line 3: brand is the brand name. Change it to match your actual brand. For example, "The Standard" or "Galenas" or "Your House Brand".

Line 4: category is the product type. Valid options are: flower, preroll, edible, tincture, topical, vape. Do not invent new categories. Use only these six words.

Line 5: tier is the price level. Valid options are: value, mid, premium. Do not invent new tiers.

Line 6: thc is the THC percentage. Change the numbers inside the quotation marks. For example, "28-32%" or "20%" or "100mg".

Line 7: cbd is the CBD percentage or amount. Change the text inside the quotation marks. For example, "<1%" or "100mg" or "0mg".

Line 8: terpenes is a list of terpene names. Each name goes inside quotation marks and is separated by a comma. You can have as many or as few as you want. For example: ["Myrcene", "Limonene"] or ["Caryophyllene", "Myrcene", "Limonene", "Linalool"].

Line 9: effects is a list of what the product does. Each effect goes inside quotation marks and is separated by a comma. For example: ["Relaxation", "Pain Relief"] or ["Energy", "Focus", "Creativity"].

Line 10: bestFor is a list of conditions this product treats. Valid condition codes are: sleep, pain, anxiety, appetite, energy, mood. Do not invent new condition codes. Use only these six words. You can list as many as apply. For example: ["pain", "sleep"] or ["anxiety", "mood", "sleep"].

Line 11: methods is a list of how the product is consumed. Valid method codes are: smoke, vape, edible, tincture, topical. Do not invent new method codes.

Line 12: description is the product description that appears on the recommendation screen. Change the text inside the quotation marks. Keep it under two sentences.

Line 13: staffScript is the exact words your staff should say to the customer. Change the text inside the quotation marks. Write it as if you are speaking to a customer. This is the most important line to edit.

Step Four. Edit one product.
Change the name, brand, thc, cbd, terpenes, effects, bestFor, methods, description, and staffScript for one product.

Important rule: Every line must end with a comma EXCEPT the last line before the closing curly brace. The last line before the closing brace has NO comma.

Correct example:
    name: "GG4",
    brand: "The Standard",
    staffScript: "Hello."
  }

Incorrect example:
    name: "GG4",
    brand: "The Standard",
    staffScript: "Hello.",
  }

The incorrect example has a comma after staffScript. That comma will break the tool. Remove it.

Step Five. Save the file.
Press Control and S at the same time. On a Mac, press Command and S.
Close the text editor.
Double-click the file to open it in your browser.
Test the tool. Walk through the six steps. Verify that your edited product appears in the recommendations.

Step Six. Add a new product.
To add a new product, copy an entire product block from the opening curly brace to the closing curly brace.
Paste it after the last product block.
Add a comma after the closing curly brace of the previous last product.
Change the internal code name on the first line. It must be unique. For example: "yourbrand-newstrain".
Change all the product details.
Save. Test.

Step Seven. Remove a product.
Delete the entire product block from the opening curly brace to the closing curly brace.
If the product you deleted was the last one in the list, remove the comma after the closing curly brace of the new last product.
Save. Test.

=== COMMON MISTAKES AND HOW TO FIX THEM ===

Mistake One. I added a comma after the last line of a product.
Fix. Open the file. Find the product. Remove the comma after the last line before the closing curly brace.

Mistake Two. I used a word that is not in the valid list for category, tier, bestFor, or methods.
Fix. Open the file. Find the invalid word. Replace it with one of the valid words listed in Step Three.

Mistake Three. I deleted a quotation mark.
Fix. Open the file. Find the line. Add the missing quotation mark. Every piece of text must have a quotation mark at the beginning and a quotation mark at the end.

Mistake Four. I deleted a curly brace or square bracket.
Fix. Open the file. Find the missing brace or bracket. Add it back. Every opening brace must have a matching closing brace.

Mistake Five. The tool opens but shows no recommendations.
Fix. You probably deleted a comma between two products. Every product block except the last one must have a comma after its closing curly brace. Add the comma.

=== BACKUP BEFORE EDITING ===

Before you edit the file, make a copy.
Right-click the file.
Select Copy.
Right-click in an empty space.
Select Paste.
A copy of the file will appear with a name like "Zero-One-Medical-Patient-Concierge-Copy.html".
If you break the original file, delete it and rename the copy to the original name.
