HOW TO EDIT THE SOP AND TRAINING ENGINE
For Learning and Development Managers with No Programming Experience

=== WHAT YOU CAN EDIT ===

You can change:
1. Scenario titles
2. Scenario descriptions
3. The step-by-step SOP instructions
4. The Ohio DCC compliance checks
5. The two-minute training scripts
6. The three quiz questions and answers
7. You can add entirely new scenarios
8. You can remove scenarios you do not need

You cannot break the tool. If you make a mistake, the tool will still open. It may show strange text, but it will not crash. You can always undo your changes and try again.

=== WHAT YOU NEED ===

You need a text editor. On Windows, use Notepad. On Mac, use TextEdit in plain text mode. Do not use Microsoft Word. Word adds hidden formatting that breaks the tool.

=== STEP-BY-STEP INSTRUCTIONS ===

Step One. Locate the file.
Open the folder named Zero-Three-TOOLS-READY-TO-DEPLOY.
Find the file named Zero-Two-SOP-Training-Engine.html.
Right-click the file.
Select Open With.
Choose Notepad on Windows or TextEdit on Mac.

Step Two. Find the scenario database.
The file is long. Do not read all of it.
Press Control and F at the same time. On a Mac, press Command and F.
A search box will appear.
Type the exact text: overcharge:
Press Enter.
The editor will jump to the first scenario in the database.

Step Three. Understand the scenario format.
Each scenario looks like this example. I will show you one complete scenario and label every part.

  overcharge: {
    title: "Customer Disputes Overcharge",
    severity: "critical",
    sop: [
      "Acknowledge the customer's concern immediately.",
      "Move the customer to the consultation area.",
      "Review the receipt line-by-line WITH the customer.",
      "Check the online menu price on a secondary device.",
      "If the POS applied an incorrect discount: apologize and re-ring.",
      "If the customer was overcharged: process refund immediately.",
      "Document the discrepancy in the Daily Log.",
      "Offer a $5 loyalty credit as a goodwill gesture."
    ],
    compliance: [
      "Ohio DCC requires all refunds to be documented in METRC-adjacent records.",
      "Ensure the original receipt is voided and a new receipt is printed.",
      "If the overcharge exceeds $100, escalate to Store Manager same-day.",
      "Never tell a customer 'the system doesn't make mistakes.'"
    ],
    training: [
      "Today we are covering price integrity.",
      "Here is the 5-step process: acknowledge, move, review, verify, fix.",
      "Role-play: I am a customer who was overcharged $20. Walk me through your response.",
      "Common mistake: reviewing the receipt alone behind the counter.",
      "The $5 loyalty credit is not a bribe — it is a retention investment."
    ],
    quiz: [
      "What is the FIRST thing you say when a customer disputes a charge?",
      "At what dollar threshold must a manager be involved in an overcharge?",
      "Why do we review the receipt WITH the customer instead of alone?",
      "What system must be updated when processing a refund?"
    ]
  }

Here is what each line means:

Line 1: "overcharge" is the internal code name for this scenario. Do not change this unless you are adding a completely new scenario. If you are editing an existing scenario, leave this line alone.

Line 2: title is what appears on the scenario button and at the top of the output. Change the text inside the quotation marks.

Line 3: severity controls the color of the output. Valid options are: critical, warning, info. Do not invent new severity levels.

Line 4: sop: [ opens the list of step-by-step instructions. Each instruction goes inside quotation marks and is separated by a comma. You can have as many or as few steps as you want. Each step should be one sentence.

Line 5 through Line 12: These are the individual SOP steps. Change the text inside each pair of quotation marks. Write each step as a command. For example: "Acknowledge the customer." not "You should acknowledge the customer."

Line 13: ], closes the SOP list.

Line 14: compliance: [ opens the list of compliance checks. Each check goes inside quotation marks and is separated by a comma.

Line 15 through Line 18: These are the individual compliance checks. Change the text inside each pair of quotation marks. Include specific Ohio DCC references when possible.

Line 19: ], closes the compliance list.

Line 20: training: [ opens the list of training script lines. Each line goes inside quotation marks and is separated by a comma.

Line 21 through Line 25: These are the lines of the two-minute training script. Change the text inside each pair of quotation marks. Line 3 should always be a role-play prompt. Line 4 should always be a common mistake warning.

Line 26: ], closes the training list.

Line 27: quiz: [ opens the list of quiz questions. Each question goes inside quotation marks and is separated by a comma.

Line 28 through Line 31: These are the three quiz questions. Change the text inside each pair of quotation marks. Write each question so it has one clear correct answer.

Line 32: ] closes the quiz list.

Line 33: } closes the entire scenario.

Step Four. Edit one scenario.
Change the title, severity, and the text inside the quotation marks for the sop, compliance, training, and quiz sections.

Important rule: Every line inside a list must end with a comma EXCEPT the last line before the closing bracket. The last line before the closing bracket has NO comma.

Correct example inside a list:
      "Acknowledge the customer.",
      "Move to consultation area.",
      "Review the receipt."
    ],

Incorrect example:
      "Acknowledge the customer.",
      "Move to consultation area.",
      "Review the receipt.",
    ],

The incorrect example has a comma after the last item. That comma will break the tool. Remove it.

Step Five. Save the file.
Press Control and S at the same time. On a Mac, press Command and S.
Close the text editor.
Double-click the file to open it in your browser.
Test the tool. Click the scenario you edited. Verify that your changes appear correctly.

Step Six. Add a new scenario.
To add a new scenario, copy an entire scenario block from the opening code name to the closing curly brace.
Paste it after the last scenario block.
Add a comma after the closing curly brace of the previous last scenario.
Change the internal code name on the first line. It must be unique. For example: "new-scenario-name".
Change all the scenario details.
Save. Test.

Step Seven. Remove a scenario.
Delete the entire scenario block from the opening code name to the closing curly brace.
If the scenario you deleted was the last one in the list, remove the comma after the closing curly brace of the new last scenario.
Save. Test.

=== THE CUSTOM SCENARIO FEATURE ===

The tool has a text box at the bottom where managers can type any situation and generate a custom SOP. This feature uses a built-in generic template. You do not need to edit this feature. It works automatically for any text entered.

=== COMMON MISTAKES AND HOW TO FIX THEM ===

Mistake One. I added a comma after the last item in a list.
Fix. Open the file. Find the list. Remove the comma after the last item before the closing bracket.

Mistake Two. I used a word that is not in the valid list for severity.
Fix. Open the file. Find the invalid word. Replace it with critical, warning, or info.

Mistake Three. I deleted a quotation mark.
Fix. Open the file. Find the line. Add the missing quotation mark. Every piece of text must have a quotation mark at the beginning and a quotation mark at the end.

Mistake Four. I deleted a bracket or curly brace.
Fix. Open the file. Find the missing bracket or brace. Add it back. Every opening bracket must have a matching closing bracket.

Mistake Five. The tool opens but shows blank output when I click a scenario.
Fix. You probably deleted a comma between two scenarios. Every scenario block except the last one must have a comma after its closing curly brace. Add the comma.

=== BACKUP BEFORE EDITING ===

Before you edit the file, make a copy.
Right-click the file.
Select Copy.
Right-click in an empty space.
Select Paste.
A copy of the file will appear with a name like "Zero-Two-SOP-Training-Engine-Copy.html".
If you break the original file, delete it and rename the copy to the original name.
